We're talking to Bob Parker.
I love this book.
You're feeling very comfortable.
I don't know if you're familiar with it.
I sense comfort here and ease.
I'm very old.
I've relaxed.
I've got to tell you a cute story which is totally irrelevant.
Anyway, you said you're wrong.
That's not an excuse.
When Keats was my edge, he'd been dead for 40 years.
I tracked them all.
I started with Keats and then I passed...
Shelly, and then she passed Byron and Fitzgerald.
When you can't go to Wordsworth, you know you're really getting there.
I've passed Hemingway.
Yeah, well, I've done, what, 23, 24 Spencer books, something like that, and several others.
I've got about 30 books, I guess, that I've written.
By that time, you know you can.
You can bring the heat, as the ballplayers say.
Yeah, right, right.
And you're in a zone, you know, and you, I mean, I think that the, I never know whether one book is better or worse than another.
I assume they are.
You know, I assume some books are better, some books are worse.
You can't write 30 books and have them all be exactly the same.
But I never know it when I'm writing it.
And my own inclination, and I don't reread them, is probably that the later books, the last five, six years, have been better than the earlier ones.
I know there are people who feel just reverse, that they like the gritty, hard-boiled, more traditional stuff of the early books.
You give them a couple of hard-boiled scenes in there, though.
And some of those other books where you had gone, like Don Auto Island, this is really a nice Boston, I mean, with the exception, of course, in Vegas.
Were you interested in really kind of getting into this gambling?
Well, I just thought, I mean, you know, I'd do a book a year, pretty much, and it is, let me just pause for a moment, room service.
Sure.
And I was thinking up the next story.
I mean, that's what I'm always doing after I finished the last one.
And the thought came to me, Spencer in Vegas, and I thought his take on Vegas.
I had never driven through Vegas, but I'd never actually been to Vegas when the thought occurred to me.
Come on.
I've been since.
Before I wrote the book, I went to Vegas.
Well, honestly, because you really had to get to Mirage.
But I've driven.
We had a house until recently in Los Angeles that spent the winters out there.
And I would drive Pearl the Wonder Dog back and forth because she doesn't like to fly.
And Joan would fly, and Pearl and I would drive cross-country.
So I've driven through Vegas, which is hysterical.
I mean, you know, driving through the desert, and all of a sudden this idiotic place rears itself.
And then you drive a little further, and it's gone.
You're back in the desert again.
I mean, it's like Oz.
So that's really all it was, Spencer and Vegas.
And I thought it would be interesting to see what he thought of it.
So Joan and I went out.
you know, for about a week and walked around.
Stayed at the Mirage?
We stayed at the Mirage, yeah.
Did you have this spectacular?
Oh yeah, the goddamn volcano.
It kept going off.
I mean, that's interesting.
Once every 15 minutes, you know?
The volcano's going again, you know?
In a bizarre kind of way, we had fun.
Because we didn't expect it.
Yeah, we had fun.
I have no desire to go back.
But we had some fun.
I'm not interested in gambling.
I'm not opposed to it.
It just doesn't get my attention.
You know, I sense that because there really is no insight here in gambling.
No, no.
That's nothing much that I do.
You know, I used to play poker with a guy sometimes and drink a little beer and play poker.
I'm the kind of poker player that always would be saying that.
So Full House beat a straight, you know.
But I mean, the way you know food and other things, you don't know... No, I don't know gambling.
You don't know gambling at all.
And in fact, the dust jacket has a dye on it when the Game of Quest is black jacket.
It's like waiting for the dye.
The crabs came to get started.
Jackets aren't they doing?
No, but it's nice.
And of course, how about the stuff about the Russians in there?
I mean, is this the Boston mob, is this something that they're playing?
Well, the Russian mafia is coming and is beginning a problem.
And it just popped into my head.
I don't know whether I, you know, one of the things you have to face is how much do I know about the Russian mafia, you know?
And I can't, I can either research it, which might get me shot, or I can move on or something else.
But on the other hand, how much does the reader know about the Russian Mafia?
So there's a, what was it, Henry James said, that it doesn't matter so much what experience you've had, it's what you do with it, you know?
Well, I heard, just coincidentally, a couple of months ago, when I was in New York at the book fair, I mean, a guy who was, an Italian guy, who was, you know, in Washington, he was very well-connected up, and I don't forget how he did it, he said, but
Now, if you want to rub somebody out, you hire Russians.
Yeah, that's my understanding, too.
And it's very reasonable, apparently.
It's not a lot of money.
Well, they've, you know, that's one of the great benefits of Glasnost.
Get a cheap hit, not from a Russian.
They drive cabs and they kill people.
That's what they do.
They come in and they do it.
But I have to tell you, you had me here.
I was really, I'm pretty good at figuring out where these things are going.
Anaheim, is that just a whack at Southern Cal?
No, I just didn't make it in my head.
There's a...
a character named Ventura as well.
I probably was, you know, it's probably been out there too much.
Yeah, but I wonder, you say you don't read the books once they're done, but yet I sense that there is a possibility for a sequel here.
You know, I mean, the characters are replaced.
The principal bad guy is, you have him ready to talk to the fence where I'm not going to give this thing away, and the girl has gone back in theory.
Well, I don't have a master plan.
When people from earlier novels crop up in the later novel, it's because I think of them in the later novel.
I look back and I say, oh, it's sort of like life.
Who could I call on for this?
The next novel is not a sequel to this one.
It's called Small Vices and it's done.
And it has no particular connection to this one.
This doesn't mean that I won't go back, like I went back to Fast Eddie Lee again here.
seem useful to me, and I'll probably go back to various people at one time or another.
In those cases, you do have to kind of go back and see how you... I have to make sure.
I will thumb back.
Make sure that they're alive.
Yeah, I'll make sure, you know, how tall were they or what did they look like.
Yeah, I usually go back and read the passages about them that I wrote before, but I never sit down and read my books.
It's an interesting thing, because the point I have to make when I'm speaking
The audience or the reader knows my book in a very different way than I do because you consume this in a few hours on an airplane flight or a couple of evenings or something like that.
I created it in small five-page segments over a period of four or five months and never read it in total.
I don't read the whole thing through once I'm done.
You really don't.
I really don't.
I've never read this.
I've never actually read this book the way you read it.
And I read it really in one sitting.
One sitting, probably.
And I read it quickly.
Yeah, I do, too.
I would read it in one sitting, probably.
And then I basically did it last night.
Yeah, I read More Leonard in one sitting, for instance.
Which is about right.
Yeah, that's right.
And so I know, I bet, I bet I know Dutch's books in a way that he doesn't, you know, because I bet he doesn't read them in one sitting.
And that's right.
No, I never reread them all.
I'll go back.
How about when they come back in galleys?
I don't read the galleys.
I mean, there's a sentence here where you use the word stiffen three times.
I said, I wish the hell he'd fix that.
Yeah, I wish I had two.
Keep putting that one up.
To the end where the woman is crying and she stiffens and she stiffens and she stiffens.
The copy editor is supposed to get that.
But what I do with the galleys is I read the queries, but I don't reread.
Do you do much research, Fred?
Pardon me for asking stupid questions.
We haven't come at this territory before.
And I do have a wealth of stuff to draw on from here, so I'm not going to... Well, questions are... I mean, what are you going to ask, you know?
Yeah, I'm going to ask a point that... Well, no, I don't do much research.
You know, I wouldn't try to write about a place without going there.
I wrote, you know, I wouldn't write about Vegas without visiting Vegas.
And I wouldn't try to talk about things I didn't see.
Sometimes I will make something up, you know...
I'll make up a town if I, if I need a town.
As you've done.
As I've done.
Down in Rhode Island and there, which is Central Falls.
Yeah, that's right.
You did something up in the Quabbin area once, I think.
And I did a town in Illinois once called Redford, which I made up.
That I could do, but I, you know, even, even out in the Quabbin area when I went up to Ware and looked around before I made up whatever I called in the book.
But other than that, no, I don't, I don't do a great deal of research.
Uh,
I get gun magazines, you know, and read them, which then gets me on the mailing list of some of the wildest freak dogs on the planet.
You probably think you're one of the guys.
Yeah, I get all sorts of NRA stuff and, you know, save our rights and things.
But, you know, just so I, if you make a mistake with a gun, you get more mail than any other thing.
I found this out in my old book.
I mean, the things you don't even expect to come out of the woodwork, you know.
If you had The Wizard of Oz being published in 1902 or 1901, you know.
You have people get all out of the shop, yeah.
Give me a, you know.
Yeah.
I sometimes wonder if I'll get a life, maybe, you know.
I guess one thing I'd like to talk about this piece, as I've done before, but your concept of Spencer.
I mean, this is clearly right now.
It's 1996.
Everything is contemporary.
uh he is tell me about how he's aging i mean this is not like a classic private guy yeah it's uh he's fixed in place you know well it's a it's a problem which i have tried to solve essentially by ignoring it that is uh i have established clearly that he was in the korean war that he fought joe walcott he has my memories i'm 63 uh and uh you know uh i can't get away from that even if i wanted to which i don't because it seems to give him more density
But what I simply do is I don't mention his age.
He's got to be about 60 years old now if one were to track him back, or 61, or, you know, in that early 60s range.
And, you know, I just ignore it because I don't think it is, I don't think it's credible if you are reminded that he is, say, my age, 63.
Even though, in fact, it can be, I'm still in pretty good shape.
And Joan and I are still quite romantic.
And, you know, I mean, it doesn't suddenly go away when you pass a certain mark.
But it isn't a credible, you know, it's not what you think of when you read a book.
So I just, what I have done is simply don't mention his age.
And don't touch upon, you know, he doesn't have, I have an arthritic left shoulder, you know.
My knees are sad.
He doesn't have both.
But you also made a decision
not to fix them in place, too, and I think we can go a little deeper.
There must be some kind of philosophical... Oh, God, I wish there were.
It would sound so good if I said it.
No, it's just, maybe I did.
Much of this is far less thoughtful than it would appear.
Much of it is, I always like to say, right with my hands, you know.
it sort of comes out.
This does not mean it's unintelligent, and it does not mean it's unimaginative, but it means it's not entirely conscious all the time, I think.
But I don't, you know, I remember, I mean, I suppose the classic example is Archie Goodman and Nero Wolfe, you know, I mean, Archie was 34 or 5 or something like that in the first novel, and he was 34 or 5 in the last novel, but he went through the Second World War, he was a major and all of that, and Wolfe never aged.
Marlow went from, I think, 32 to 42 in his six, seven books.
It seems like more than six or seven books, doesn't it?
Yeah.
It's seven.
Do you see this as a corpus?
I mean, even though you don't go back and look at them, I mean, is it the kind of... Oh, yeah, because it is all part of one long writing process.
or sort of like one ongoing story that I can recall the broad outlines of all the books, and I can recall characters from books if I ever need them.
You know, minor characters, people, I may not even remember their name, but I remember the pimp in the second book I wrote, you know, and I go back and I find him.
Or in this one, I came up with that cop that I used in...
New York cop that I used in Tammy Seahorse.
Couldn't remember his name.
I had to go back to Tammy Seahorse and find him.
So, but I, you know, I don't remember the details.
Again, you get, there was a fan club someplace.
I'm sure you get this in a club somewhere.
We've talked five times that they used to have the Spencer Trivia Quiz, and I was supposed to be the judge, and the first time they did, they had five wrong, you know.
I don't have that.
But one of their questions, I still remember one of the questions, name five years in the Spencer novels that had been mentioned but not drunk.
I'm 0 for 5 on that.
Talk about ghetto life.
And you still, when you start, it's not a pain in the neck.
No.
Do you enjoy it?
Well, you've written a book.
You don't exactly enjoy it.
I would rather do it than not do it.
I would miss it if I didn't.
I haven't for a while because I've been promoting, and I get restless after a while if I don't.
I plan to keep doing it.
But like so many things, it's hard when you do it, and I'm glad when it's over.
But I'll do it again tomorrow, you know.
That's what I do.
And you are now writing, I think, the last four or five books on a computer, which you said you'd never do.
So the typewriter broke, and I had to join the century.
And did you find any difference at all in the writing?
I don't find any difference, but I bet there is one.
It would be somebody's doctoral thesis someday to chart the difference between... Well, when I went to your house the last time, and you did have the home computer there, I sensed something different.
I think it's smoother, actually.
I do, too.
Whether you like it or you do revise, you tend to revise a hell of a lot more.
Yeah, you owe much you should revise.
You don't throw away the paper and you get the thing right.
No, I mean, revision on a typewriter is, you know, a major effort.
Revision on a computer is nothing.
You owe a piece of paper and you owe a piece of paper and make a very fundamental decision.
And the computer, the process is endless.
You can revise endlessly.
I don't revise endlessly, but I do revise far more than I would have without it.
And the only real character in this is Pearl the Wonder Dog, right?
That's right.
If you met her, you would recognize her.
Even the name?
No, it is Pearl.
That's her.
Someone asked me, is this really your dog?
Do you think it's a model?
It's a model for this thing?
Yeah, it's my dog.
It's a great picture.
They love dog pictures.
Apparently.
I mean, you know, I've got editors at that.
I mean, if I can get a picture with a dog in a minute, and color, by the way, tell Putnam to get a colored picture.
They are on the paperbacks, they're on the back, they're colored.
I wish I should remember to bring that.
I've got newspapers that will, I can sell stories to, just if they're colored pictures.
Because, I mean, it's the art.
Yeah, right, they like the way it looks, yeah.
Well, I mean, they can do more.
There are sections now, they're doing color.
I really don't have to take up too much of your time.
Okay.
I'd love you to subscribe to my book.
Sure.
That's a brave sound I think we should point out.
That's right.
Did you listen to Upton yesterday?
Say again?
Upton Bell made a fundamental mistake.
Is that right?
No, no, I know that.
But Upton's supposed to be, I'm going to steal this pen from these people too, because I've got to sign books, I hope.
Well, that's a lousy pen.
I like these pens.
Good pen.
It's in my collection.
I haven't written with a fountain pen for years.
I'm going to ABA this week.
Are you being spared this?
I'm being spared this.
Haven't been since New York, I think.
I mean, whether he's an alter ego or not, but you hear his voice.
I mean, you actually visualize his voice.
Do you have him as a picture of Spencer?
No.
I don't quite know what he looks like.
And I don't quite know what he sounds like, although I can hear him and I can see him.
But it's not clear exactly what he looks like.
People are always asking, would you like to have play him?
Or was Robert Yorick your vision of Spencer?
No.
Who would I have play him?
Well, Tommy Lee Jones, Harrison Ford.
Once you get that, it'll open a picture.
These questions are so remote from...
But I think it's what people really want to know, is, well, what does he look like?
And I don't know, I guess... Yeah, that's what I ask, basically.
I guess whether you have a vision of a little picture, and his voice, I guess.
Yeah, yeah.
No, the voice is there, because it tells the story, and it's a fairly consistent voice.
And is the voice, in fact, his, or is it yours?
I think it's his.
I don't think I talk quite that way.
Oh, the sense of humor has got to be with his book.
Well, I can't.
You collaborate.
Well, he couldn't have it if I didn't.
No, he can't.
It's wonderful.
His sense of humor is, you know, wonderful.
Yeah.
There are those who don't like her.
Oh.
That's part of the game.
And there are those who, well, there are those who don't like anything.
You know, I mean, I can find people who don't like every single thing about my books if you get reviewed enough.
If it were for differences of opinion, there wouldn't be any bookmakers, right?
That's right.
Exactly.
And that's, that'll be fine.
They could disagree.
And you do mention the Indian Reservation down there.
Have you been down to the Foxwoods at all?
No.
I haven't actually been there a couple of times.
No, as I say, it holds no interest for me.
I get bored, you know.
I don't much care if I win or lose.
I mean, if I lose a ton, I'm unhappy.
But I don't normally, just don't interest.
Susan's attitude.
to gambling probably reflects yours.
You know, Joan's more.
Joan is, that scene where Susan is gambling and... Totally going against all... Yeah, that's Joan.
That's because Joan did that.
She said, you've got to stand next to me and tell me how to play blackjack.
So I stood next to her and told her what to do, and she paid no attention to me.
And I said, what am I standing here for?
She said, well, it's too boring to stand there and wait.
You also want to cut it too.
Yeah, I want to cut it.